# Gabrielle’s Building Blocks
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/-r9qFVZj_ew
#### Description:

My game is called Gabrielle’s Building Blocks. I created this game because it is similar to my favorite game to play on my phone. I play it a lot to pass the time and when I am bored and I am proud to finally be able to create a simplified version myself. I created this game on my computer. I wrote one file using Lua with LOVE. There are seven shapes (I chose seven because it is a lucky number and it adds variety to the game) and each shape contains four blocks for simplicity. Every block is set to ' '. This is a string containing the space character which represents an empty block. Each rotation of a piece is written as 4x4 grid of strings in the code file. All of the blocks are gray, which is my favorite color. The grid is 10x18.

Keyboard controls direct the blocks. The left and right arrow keys move the blocks left and right respectively as it is most intuitive. The G key moves the block counterclockwise, A moves the key clockwise, and B drops the block. I chose G-A-B because they are the first three letters of my name and I wanted to personalize the game. Pieces fall every three seconds. When a piece is dropped, the timer is set immediately to the limit so that adding the piece to the inert pieces and creating the new piece happens immediately instead of waiting for three seconds. Since the timer limit is reused, it is made into a variable.

A new piece is created and falls from the top of the grid. When a piece falls to the present row, then the next piece falls. When blocks fill a level, it disappears so the row moves down and so the player can continue building. The game ends when a piece falls and it would overlap a previously fall block and if the rows would be higher than the playing grid. The object of the game is to accumulate as few levels as possible. Players lose when too many levels accumulate. Blocks cannot overlap each other and cannot fall outside the playing grid. If a newly created piece is in an unmovable position, then the game is over.

An important function is written in the code. It checks the blocks to see if they are within the playing area before a piece is moved or rotated. This prevents pieces from moving to the left or right of the screen when they are moved or rotated. This function checks the position and rotation in multiple places and then returns true or false depending on if the piece can move or rotate. The code is changed from immediately setting positions/rotations, to creating variables for the changed values, and if the checking function returns true, the actual position/rotation is set to the changed values. If any of the block’s position is greater than the width or height of the playing area then the function returns false.

